docs/api-reference/chat-completions.mdx, before:

---
title: Chat Completions
description: POST /openai/v1/chat/completions
---

# Chat Completions

Generate chat completions. Identical to OpenAI's endpoint.

```
POST /openai/v1/chat/completions
```

## Request

```bash
curl http://localhost:3000/openai/v1/chat/completions \
  -H "Authorization: Bearer $OPENAI_API_KEY" \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -d '{
    "model": "gpt-5.2",
    "messages": [
      {"role": "user", "content": "Hello"}
    ]
  }'
```

## Parameters

| Parameter | Type | Required | Description |
|-----------|------|----------|-------------|
| `model` | string | Yes | Model ID (e.g., `gpt-5.2`) |
| `messages` | array | Yes | Conversation messages |
| `stream` | boolean | No | Enable streaming |
| `temperature` | number | No | Sampling temperature (0-2) |
| `max_tokens` | number | No | Maximum tokens to generate |

All OpenAI parameters are supported and forwarded to your provider.

## Response

```json
{
  "id": "chatcmpl-abc123",
  "object": "chat.completion",
  "created": 1677858242,
  "model": "gpt-5.2",
  "choices": [
    {
      "index": 0,
      "message": {
        "role": "assistant",
        "content": "Hello! How can I help you today?"
      },
      "finish_reason": "stop"
    }
  ],
  "usage": {
    "prompt_tokens": 10,
    "completion_tokens": 15,
    "total_tokens": 25
  }
}
```

## Streaming

Set `stream: true` for Server-Sent Events:

<CodeGroup>

```python Python
from openai import OpenAI

client = OpenAI(base_url="http://localhost:3000/openai/v1")

stream = client.chat.completions.create(
    model="gpt-5.2",
    messages=[{"role": "user", "content": "Write a haiku"}],
    stream=True
)

for chunk in stream:
    if chunk.choices[0].delta.content:
        print(chunk.choices[0].delta.content, end="")
```

```javascript JavaScript
import OpenAI from 'openai';

const client = new OpenAI({
  baseURL: 'http://localhost:3000/openai/v1'
});

const stream = await client.chat.completions.create({
  model: 'gpt-5.2',
  messages: [{ role: 'user', content: 'Write a haiku' }],
  stream: true
});

for await (const chunk of stream) {
  process.stdout.write(chunk.choices[0]?.delta?.content || '');
}
```

</CodeGroup>

## Response Headers

PasteGuard adds headers to indicate PII and secrets handling:

| Header | Description |
|--------|-------------|
| `X-PasteGuard-Mode` | Current mode (`mask` or `route`) |
| `X-PasteGuard-Provider` | Provider used (`upstream` or `local`) |
| `X-PasteGuard-PII-Detected` | `true` if PII was found |
| `X-PasteGuard-PII-Masked` | `true` if PII was masked (mask mode only) |
| `X-PasteGuard-Language` | Detected language code |
| `X-PasteGuard-Language-Fallback` | `true` if configured language was not available |
| `X-PasteGuard-Secrets-Detected` | `true` if secrets were found |
| `X-PasteGuard-Secrets-Types` | Comma-separated list of detected secret types |
| `X-PasteGuard-Secrets-Redacted` | `true` if secrets were redacted |

Commit message:

Refactor config: providers.upstream → providers.openai, add wildcard proxy
Config changes:
- Rename providers.upstream to providers.openai for clarity
- Remove routing config section (simplified to: PII → local, no PII → openai)
- Move local provider to top-level config (not under providers)
- Change default secrets action from block to redact

Proxy changes:
- Replace specific /models route with wildcard /* proxy
- Supports all OpenAI endpoints: /models, /embeddings, /audio/*, etc.

Documentation:
- Update all docs to reflect new config structure
- Remove docs/api-reference/models.mdx (now covered by wildcard proxy)

docs/api-reference/chat-completions.mdx, after:

---
title: Chat Completions
description: POST /openai/v1/chat/completions
---

# Chat Completions

Generate chat completions with automatic PII and secrets protection.

```
POST /openai/v1/chat/completions
```

<Note>
This is the only endpoint that receives PII detection and masking. All other OpenAI endpoints (`/models`, `/embeddings`, `/files`, etc.) are proxied directly to OpenAI without modification.
</Note>

## Request

```bash
curl http://localhost:3000/openai/v1/chat/completions \
  -H "Authorization: Bearer $OPENAI_API_KEY" \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -d '{
    "model": "gpt-5.2",
    "messages": [
      {"role": "user", "content": "Hello"}
    ]
  }'
```

## Parameters

| Parameter | Type | Required | Description |
|-----------|------|----------|-------------|
| `model` | string | Yes | Model ID (e.g., `gpt-5.2`) |
| `messages` | array | Yes | Conversation messages |
| `stream` | boolean | No | Enable streaming |
| `temperature` | number | No | Sampling temperature (0-2) |
| `max_tokens` | number | No | Maximum tokens to generate |

All OpenAI parameters are supported and forwarded to your provider.

## Response

```json
{
  "id": "chatcmpl-abc123",
  "object": "chat.completion",
  "created": 1677858242,
  "model": "gpt-5.2",
  "choices": [
    {
      "index": 0,
      "message": {
        "role": "assistant",
        "content": "Hello! How can I help you today?"
      },
      "finish_reason": "stop"
    }
  ],
  "usage": {
    "prompt_tokens": 10,
    "completion_tokens": 15,
    "total_tokens": 25
  }
}
```

## Streaming

Set `stream: true` for Server-Sent Events:

<CodeGroup>

```python Python
from openai import OpenAI

client = OpenAI(base_url="http://localhost:3000/openai/v1")

stream = client.chat.completions.create(
    model="gpt-5.2",
    messages=[{"role": "user", "content": "Write a haiku"}],
    stream=True
)

for chunk in stream:
    if chunk.choices[0].delta.content:
        print(chunk.choices[0].delta.content, end="")
```

```javascript JavaScript
import OpenAI from 'openai';

const client = new OpenAI({
  baseURL: 'http://localhost:3000/openai/v1'
});

const stream = await client.chat.completions.create({
  model: 'gpt-5.2',
  messages: [{ role: 'user', content: 'Write a haiku' }],
  stream: true
});

for await (const chunk of stream) {
  process.stdout.write(chunk.choices[0]?.delta?.content || '');
}
```

</CodeGroup>

## Response Headers

PasteGuard adds headers to indicate PII and secrets handling:

| Header | Description |
|--------|-------------|
| `X-PasteGuard-Mode` | Current mode (`mask` or `route`) |
| `X-PasteGuard-Provider` | Provider used (`openai` or `local`) |
| `X-PasteGuard-PII-Detected` | `true` if PII was found |
| `X-PasteGuard-PII-Masked` | `true` if PII was masked (mask mode only) |
| `X-PasteGuard-Language` | Detected language code |
| `X-PasteGuard-Language-Fallback` | `true` if configured language was not available |
| `X-PasteGuard-Secrets-Detected` | `true` if secrets were found |
| `X-PasteGuard-Secrets-Types` | Comma-separated list of detected secret types |
| `X-PasteGuard-Secrets-Redacted` | `true` if secrets were redacted |
